docs/python/python1.md, before:



As you remember from the builder documentations, everything is written in Python. And we can customize a lot

## PyCharm
If you have pycharm installed, there's a few quick ways to jump to a specific code.  
But for that we have to link it first in the settings, 
![Alt text](../images/python_pycharm.jpg)
!!! note
    On Linux this path might look something like this:
    ```
    /mnt/apps/pycharm/pycharm2023.1.2/bin/pycharm.sh    
    ```
    If unclear which path - you can go to *Tools -> Create Command Line Launcher*, it opens a dialog that tells you
    the path to put into the $Path variable. You don't actually have to do anything with $Path variable, just take
    the path from that message.


And then you can go to any function to the builder and with right click quickly jump to the code.  
![Alt text](../images/python_goToFunction.gif)

Same thing happens on Errors in the Kangaroo Log - those are links you can just click on 
![Alt text](../images/python_error.jpg)


!!! tip
    For most efficiency inside Pycharm add the Kangaroo Tools **script** folder to the Project Structure.
    (In Pycharm: *Settings -> Project Structure -> + Add Content Root*), and also add the *assetsLocal* directory.  
    If that is setup-ed correctly, you can get some things like Auto Correction, or [STRG]+B on a function jumping to its definition.

!!! warning "Known Bug" 
    Sometimes you might notice that 
    he opens pycharm but doesn't go to the file. Or he opens the file but doesn't jump to the line number.
    To fix that - add the python root folder (In Pycharm: *Settings -> Project Structure -> + Add Content Root*)


## Simple way of adding a Function
The simplest way to add a function is just in the character script. Basically the python file that is 
inside your version folder.  
It's the file that is shown in *white*, and it's usually the same name ass your asset.

In there add a function that looks like this:
```python
@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16)
def simpleFunction(iLuckyNumber=20, sObjects=[]):
    print ('Hello, your lucky number is %d' % iLuckyNumber)
    print ('And the objects are: %s' % sObjects)
```


And then to get that into the builder, you need to click the ![Alt text](../images/python_reloadButtonSmall.jpg) (*reload*) 
button. Basically every time you change any of the scripts, the builder will only know about it if you click that button. 
Unless you switch to the character with the upper comboboxes, then he'll reload anyway
![Alt text](../images/python_reloadButton.jpg)
!!! warning "Remember!"
    Forgetting to click the **reload** button is a very common thing with kangaroo beginners. So best write it down ;-)
Now let's look at the function. The important thing is the decorator that starts with *@builderTools.add...*. 
If you don't have that, the function won't show up in the Builder.
Do you see the **iOrder=16** parameter in the code above? That's the order number where shows up in the 
builder. The numbers are listed on the right side of the *Function Table*. Basically for finding the correct 
order number, just look in the table at which place you'd like it to be. If you want the function to run after
the *LoadDeformer()*, the priority attribute needs to be something higher than 50.
![Alt text](../images/python_order.jpg)


## Function Attributes
Now let's run the function with the *Run Selected* button. It should come to no surprise that when you change
the attribute in the builder, he'll print the sentence with the new number.  
![Alt text](../images/python_runSimpleFunction.jpg)


## Scene Selection
Getting the scene selection into the attributes is quick. On any attribute that is declared with an empty list,
you can do the right click -> **Scene Selection** option  
![Alt text](../images/python_selectedObjects.gif)


## Buttons
Let's add a button. Change the above code to this.


```python
def buttonFunction():
    print ('a button was clicked')

@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16, dButtons={'new button':buttonFunction})
def simpleFunction(iLuckyNumber=20, sObjects=[]):
    print ('Hello, your lucky number is %d' % iLuckyNumber)
    print ('And the objects are: %s' % sObjects)
```
After clicking the reload button, you'll get this button:
![Alt text](../images/python_button.jpg)


## Marking Menus
If you want marking menus into the button, you just nest a few dictionaries:



```python
def buttonA():
    print ('buttonA was clicked')

def buttonB():
    print ('buttonB was clicked')

def buttonC():
    print ('buttonC was clicked')

@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16, dButtons={'new button':{'buttonA': buttonA, 'more buttons': {'buttonB':buttonB, 'buttonC':buttonC}}})
def simpleFunction():
    pass
```


Clicking the reload button with this new code, you'll that that super cool looking marking menu. You can even
extract the function with that **<-->** button, which can be very handy if the menu gets complex.

![Alt text](../images/python_markingMenu.gif)



## Let the Button change your Attributes
```python
def incrementNumber(iLuckyNumber, _uiArgs={}):
    print ('Lucky number is %d' % iLuckyNumber)
    iLuckyNumber += 1
    _uiArgs['iLuckyNumber'].setText(str(iLuckyNumber))

@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16, dButtons={'increment':incrementNumber})
def simpleFunction(iLuckyNumber=20):
    print ('Hello, your lucky number is %d' % iLuckyNumber)
```

See how the button changes the attribute's value? This is basically what all those *fill* buttons in kangaroo
are doing:
![Alt text](../images/builder_incrementNumber.gif)


## Logging
While you might be happy enough with the print() function, sometimes it's cool if you can
also log into the Kangaroo Log field at the bottom.

```python
import kangarooTools.report as report
report.report.addLogText('Hello World')
```
There's just one little catch. You'll have to deselect the function and select it again.
*Why?*
Because after he finishes running, the log shows a generalized report how the whole thing did etc.  
The *report.addLogText()* is more useful for example after you run've the whole thing and you want to go back
to the functions and check their logs. You can imagine it'd be a nightmare if in those cases you would have
just used the print() function.
![Alt text](../images/python_reportLog.jpg)




## Just Buttons
Sometimes you just want to add a few buttons but no function to run in the builder.
```python
def buttonA():
    print ('buttonA was clicked')

@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16, bNoCheckbox=True, dButtons={'buttonA':buttonA})
def simpleFunction():
    pass
```

The function then looses its checkbox and gets an italic font.
![Alt text](../images/python_noCheckBox.jpg)



## Yellow Lights
By default the lights are always green if the function finished running and red when it errored.
But sometimes you want to signal to the user that even though it didn't error, it wasn't quite without problems.
To do that, simply *return False*.
``` python
return False
```
And then you get that yellow light:
![Alt text](../images/python_yellowLight.jpg)



## Progress Bar
Making use of the progressbar at the bottom is easy.
![Alt text](../images/python_progressBar.gif)
Just run this code:
```python
    import kangarooTools.report as report
    import time
    iCount = 100
    report.report.resetProgress(iCount)
    for i in range(iCount):
        report.report.incrementProgress()
        time.sleep(0.03)
```

## Progress Bar Window
You can also have this little window you've probably seen on some other tools.
![Alt text](../images/python_progressBarExtraWindow.gif)  
It involes a bit more code though.
And it's best to put some of it into a *try* block, because otherwise you'll have that annoying window left if your code
errors
```python
    import kangarooTools.utilsQt as utilsQt
    import time
    iCount = 100
    qStatusWindow = utilsQt.QStatusWindow('Extra Window')
    try:
        qStatusWindow.setCount(iCount)
        for i in range(iCount):
            qStatusWindow.increment()
            time.sleep(0.03)
    except:
        raise
    finally:
        qStatusWindow.end()
```

## Getting Asset Info
Here are some functions for getting the Current Assets
```python
import kangarooTools.assets as assets
assets.getCurrentAsset() # returns the current asset name
assets.getCurrentProject() # returns the current project name
assets.getCurrentVersionPath() # returns the absolute version folder inside the *_build* folder

```

## Multiple Instances of a Function
One some functions such as the *fingerPoses()* you can do right click -> *set function instant count*, and then you'll see the
same function more than once:  
![Alt text](../images/python_functionInstanceCount.jpg)  
By default you don't have that option, but you can turn it on with the *bCanGetDuplicated* flag:
``` pythoon
@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=105, dButtons={}, bCanGetDuplicated=True)
```

Commit message:

added description and title tags

docs/python/python1.md, after:

---
title: Python for Kangaroo in Maya
description: Create functions that appear in Kangaroo Builder's UI 
---

As you remember from the builder documentations, everything is written in Python. And we can customize a lot

## PyCharm
If you have pycharm installed, there's a few quick ways to jump to a specific code.  
But for that we have to link it first in the settings, 
![Alt text](../images/python_pycharm.jpg)
!!! note
    On Linux this path might look something like this:
    ```
    /mnt/apps/pycharm/pycharm2023.1.2/bin/pycharm.sh    
    ```
    If unclear which path - you can go to *Tools -> Create Command Line Launcher*, it opens a dialog that tells you
    the path to put into the $Path variable. You don't actually have to do anything with $Path variable, just take
    the path from that message.


And then you can go to any function to the builder and with right click quickly jump to the code.  
![Alt text](../images/python_goToFunction.gif)

Same thing happens on Errors in the Kangaroo Log - those are links you can just click on 
![Alt text](../images/python_error.jpg)


!!! tip
    For most efficiency inside Pycharm add the Kangaroo Tools **script** folder to the Project Structure.
    (In Pycharm: *Settings -> Project Structure -> + Add Content Root*), and also add the *assetsLocal* directory.  
    If that is setup-ed correctly, you can get some things like Auto Correction, or [STRG]+B on a function jumping to its definition.

!!! warning "Known Bug" 
    Sometimes you might notice that 
    he opens pycharm but doesn't go to the file. Or he opens the file but doesn't jump to the line number.
    To fix that - add the python root folder (In Pycharm: *Settings -> Project Structure -> + Add Content Root*)


## Simple way of adding a Function
The simplest way to add a function is just in the character script. Basically the python file that is 
inside your version folder.  
It's the file that is shown in *white*, and it's usually the same name ass your asset.

In there add a function that looks like this:
```python
@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16)
def simpleFunction(iLuckyNumber=20, sObjects=[]):
    print ('Hello, your lucky number is %d' % iLuckyNumber)
    print ('And the objects are: %s' % sObjects)
```


And then to get that into the builder, you need to click the ![Alt text](../images/python_reloadButtonSmall.jpg) (*reload*) 
button. Basically every time you change any of the scripts, the builder will only know about it if you click that button. 
Unless you switch to the character with the upper comboboxes, then he'll reload anyway
![Alt text](../images/python_reloadButton.jpg)
!!! warning "Remember!"
    Forgetting to click the **reload** button is a very common thing with kangaroo beginners. So best write it down ;-)
Now let's look at the function. The important thing is the decorator that starts with *@builderTools.add...*. 
If you don't have that, the function won't show up in the Builder.
Do you see the **iOrder=16** parameter in the code above? That's the order number where shows up in the 
builder. The numbers are listed on the right side of the *Function Table*. Basically for finding the correct 
order number, just look in the table at which place you'd like it to be. If you want the function to run after
the *LoadDeformer()*, the priority attribute needs to be something higher than 50.
![Alt text](../images/python_order.jpg)


## Function Attributes
Now let's run the function with the *Run Selected* button. It should come to no surprise that when you change
the attribute in the builder, he'll print the sentence with the new number.  
![Alt text](../images/python_runSimpleFunction.jpg)


## Scene Selection
Getting the scene selection into the attributes is quick. On any attribute that is declared with an empty list,
you can do the right click -> **Scene Selection** option  
![Alt text](../images/python_selectedObjects.gif)


## Buttons
Let's add a button. Change the above code to this.


```python
def buttonFunction():
    print ('a button was clicked')

@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16, dButtons={'new button':buttonFunction})
def simpleFunction(iLuckyNumber=20, sObjects=[]):
    print ('Hello, your lucky number is %d' % iLuckyNumber)
    print ('And the objects are: %s' % sObjects)
```
After clicking the reload button, you'll get this button:
![Alt text](../images/python_button.jpg)


## Marking Menus
If you want marking menus into the button, you just nest a few dictionaries:



```python
def buttonA():
    print ('buttonA was clicked')

def buttonB():
    print ('buttonB was clicked')

def buttonC():
    print ('buttonC was clicked')

@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16, dButtons={'new button':{'buttonA': buttonA, 'more buttons': {'buttonB':buttonB, 'buttonC':buttonC}}})
def simpleFunction():
    pass
```


Clicking the reload button with this new code, you'll that that super cool looking marking menu. You can even
extract the function with that **<-->** button, which can be very handy if the menu gets complex.

![Alt text](../images/python_markingMenu.gif)



## Let the Button change your Attributes
```python
def incrementNumber(iLuckyNumber, _uiArgs={}):
    print ('Lucky number is %d' % iLuckyNumber)
    iLuckyNumber += 1
    _uiArgs['iLuckyNumber'].setText(str(iLuckyNumber))

@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16, dButtons={'increment':incrementNumber})
def simpleFunction(iLuckyNumber=20):
    print ('Hello, your lucky number is %d' % iLuckyNumber)
```

See how the button changes the attribute's value? This is basically what all those *fill* buttons in kangaroo
are doing:
![Alt text](../images/builder_incrementNumber.gif)


## Logging
While you might be happy enough with the print() function, sometimes it's cool if you can
also log into the Kangaroo Log field at the bottom.

```python
import kangarooTools.report as report
report.report.addLogText('Hello World')
```
There's just one little catch. You'll have to deselect the function and select it again.
*Why?*
Because after he finishes running, the log shows a generalized report how the whole thing did etc.  
The *report.addLogText()* is more useful for example after you run've the whole thing and you want to go back
to the functions and check their logs. You can imagine it'd be a nightmare if in those cases you would have
just used the print() function.
![Alt text](../images/python_reportLog.jpg)




## Just Buttons
Sometimes you just want to add a few buttons but no function to run in the builder.
```python
def buttonA():
    print ('buttonA was clicked')

@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=16, bNoCheckbox=True, dButtons={'buttonA':buttonA})
def simpleFunction():
    pass
```

The function then looses its checkbox and gets an italic font.
![Alt text](../images/python_noCheckBox.jpg)



## Yellow Lights
By default the lights are always green if the function finished running and red when it errored.
But sometimes you want to signal to the user that even though it didn't error, it wasn't quite without problems.
To do that, simply *return False*.
``` python
return False
```
And then you get that yellow light:
![Alt text](../images/python_yellowLight.jpg)



## Progress Bar
Making use of the progressbar at the bottom is easy.
![Alt text](../images/python_progressBar.gif)
Just run this code:
```python
    import kangarooTools.report as report
    import time
    iCount = 100
    report.report.resetProgress(iCount)
    for i in range(iCount):
        report.report.incrementProgress()
        time.sleep(0.03)
```

## Progress Bar Window
You can also have this little window you've probably seen on some other tools.
![Alt text](../images/python_progressBarExtraWindow.gif)  
It involes a bit more code though.
And it's best to put some of it into a *try* block, because otherwise you'll have that annoying window left if your code
errors
```python
    import kangarooTools.utilsQt as utilsQt
    import time
    iCount = 100
    qStatusWindow = utilsQt.QStatusWindow('Extra Window')
    try:
        qStatusWindow.setCount(iCount)
        for i in range(iCount):
            qStatusWindow.increment()
            time.sleep(0.03)
    except:
        raise
    finally:
        qStatusWindow.end()
```

## Getting Asset Info
Here are some functions for getting the Current Assets
```python
import kangarooTools.assets as assets
assets.getCurrentAsset() # returns the current asset name
assets.getCurrentProject() # returns the current project name
assets.getCurrentVersionPath() # returns the absolute version folder inside the *_build* folder

```

## Multiple Instances of a Function
One some functions such as the *fingerPoses()* you can do right click -> *set function instant count*, and then you'll see the
same function more than once:  
![Alt text](../images/python_functionInstanceCount.jpg)  
By default you don't have that option, but you can turn it on with the *bCanGetDuplicated* flag:
``` pythoon
@builderTools.addToBuild(iOrder=105, dButtons={}, bCanGetDuplicated=True)
```
