kangaroo/docs/body.md, before:

# Body

## Muscle Joints
Muscle joints are simple lightweight joints that can be great for preserving volume,
or some piston type parts
<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7A5NZNeP8vg"
title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Blend Joints
Those are simple joints that rotate a percentage of the main joints. And they have a lot of
attributes to make them translate or scale based on their parents' rotation

To add one, just specify the joint in the list.
![Alt text](images/body_blendJointsAdd.gif)

Then after running that function you'll get that joint. And you can adjust its values:
![Alt text](images/body_blendJoint.gif)

Mirroring and Saving those values can be done with the DEFAULTATTRS options.  
![Alt text](images/body_blendJointsFill.jpg)
Btw - the DEFAULTATTRS thing is a common workflow throughout all the kangaroo tools. Especially when
we come to the face


# Pose Editor
Pose Editor is unavoidable especially when we do Cartoony Characters.  
It consists of Interpolators, BlendShape Poses and Ctrl Poses  


## Interpolators
Interpolators are little setups that measure (most of the time) the joints to see if and how strong
we are in a pose.   
There's a few different types: signedAngle, cones, mayaPose, upleg, custom.  
To add interpolators, just click the *Add* Button. It tells you what you need to select. And the 
selection order doesn't matter here. 

### signedAngle
SignedAngle is the simplest one, and great for simple rotations where you can assume that animators
usually just rotate it in one angle.
When it tells you to select Attribute of Ctrl, you just need to select it in the Channel Box like this:  
![Alt text](images/poseEditior_attribute.jpg)  
Once you created it, special attention is required on the Angle Axis and Up Axis. It might be a bit  
confusing, because those are the ones on the joints, not the ctrl! 
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_signedAngle.jpg)


### mayaPose
This is using the maya native interpolator. It interpolates between all the interpolator's poses at 
once, and normalizes them in some way that whenever you are in one pose, all the other poses are 0.  
That's a great thing and very handy for when you are doing upper arm corrective poses.
But it comes with quite a few disadvantages:  
- you always need to have at least 4 poses (manageable, just add a few extra poses you don't use)  
- you can't adjust the timing   
- inbetween the poses, the timing can get a bit unnatural (For correctives it might be fine, but 
could be an issue for ctrls).  
If you are getting frustrated with one of the disadvantages, try cones
 
  
### Cones
Cones just measure how close the joint's angle is to the cone's angle.
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_cone.gif)
You have more options to adjust the timing. But they can get tricky to setup at first.  
Common issues you have to tackle is that while it looks great when going into the pose, 
if the ctrl moves further the pose fades out again which is unwanted behavior in 90 % of the cases.  
And you have to make sure that there's not a small percentage of the pose turned on when 
the character is in default.  
But the good news is, those are easy to tackle if you are familiar with the **Range**
![Alt text](images/cone_attributes.jpg)  
The first thing you notice on the Range is that it starts from the higher value and goes to 
the smaller value, like 60-10 in the example above.
The first value has to be the same or smaller than the *rotation distance* - In the picture above
the rotation is (0,0,-80) so the rotation distance would be 80.
Notice I said *rotation distance* and not just rotation?
That means even though the angle of the rotation has a negative value, the rotation distance is still positive.  
Also, the range start cannot be bigger than 89. Otherwise it wouldn't be a cone anymore.    
Now we can also use the range to work around our issue with the pose fading out as the ctrl 
moves further than the pose:  
Overshoot the rotation by maybe 30 degrees (0,0,-80) becomes (0,0,-110), and then set the end 
range to 30, so the range becomes (89-30). When you double click on the pose telling him to jump into 
that pose, he'll jump to (0,0,-80), and not (0,0,-110), because 110-30 = 80


TIP: if unsure which one to use, you can start with one and later convert to the other one with right click on the interpolator.


### Upleg
This is a very specialized one just for upper leg rotating upwards like in a sitting pose. 
While you could also do that with Cones or MayaPose, this one is a more specialized one 
that turns on as the legs rotate upwards,
and stays stable when it rotates further. It also fades out as the legs rotate outwards, and you
can control if and how much it should fade out when the leg rotates inwards.


### Custom 
The custom interpolator is good for 2 things - either driving by a control attribute,
or you can use it to create your own interpolator type such as an *Interpolate By Distance Node*
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_customInterpolator.jpg)  
You can see *CtrlAttrX*, *CtrlAttrY* and *CtrlAttrZ*, but you don't need to use all of them
you can just use *CtrlAttrX* and keep the others empty.  
*DriverAttr* the attribute that actually drives the interpolator. Basically the tool checks what value
the DriverAttr has when the CtrlAttrs reach the pose etc..
And if you don't want to use DriverAttr, just give it the same as what you have for CtrlAttrX. 
So *armUpper_l_ctrl.rx* in this case

## Targets
As Targets we can do either BlendShape Poses (*Correctives*), or Ctrl Poses.
Both of them start in the same way, that you just drag&drop a pose from the *Interpolator Table*
into the *Targets Table*
If you drag more than one pose, then the Target is a combination of the poses, and you get that extra
button that lets you specify the blend mode - either *Multiply* or *Smallest*.
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_draggingTargets.gif)  
Ok, but until here it was still boring, it's not doing anything yet.
But now we can choose to do either a blendShape, or Ctrl pose

### BlendShape Targets
First specify the meshes you want to use for blendShapes by adding them into the *Meshes Table*  
And then select them again and click the EDIT button. This tells the tool that whatever you 
sculpt on the mesh will go into that Target.   
Don't forget to deactivate the EDIT button when you are done!
![Alt text](images/PoseEditor_EditButton2.gif)  
The tool I used in this gif is **Mesh Tools -> Sculpting Tools -> Grap Tool**. But when you have the EDIT button 
activated, you can also select vertices and move them. Or use some of the *Geometry Tools* like *Smooth Vertices* 


### Ctrl Targets
When you create Targets on Ctrls, it just creates a Ctrl Locator for each Pose that you can move around
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_addCtrl.gif)  
Whenever you click the *Add/Activate* button it just creates a locator if it doesn't exist yet. If 
it already exists and is also activated, it'll just select it. So that's a multi functional button 
that you'll be clicking a lot.  
In the ctrl hierarchy you can see all the locators, for each target one. And those that are activated are shown
while the others get hidden automatically. This way you could even adjust poses without the UI.
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_locators.jpg)  
But most of the time you'll be faster to just select the locator using the *Add/Activate* button

## dResetAttrs
This is a very important attribute. When you have a for example deltaMush or a blendShape target that shrinks the 
skin to avoid collisions, it would constantly get into the way of sculpting. It would also corrupt stuff when you export
or apply the blendShapes.  
For that we can add the envelope attribute into the dResetAttr dictionary. Just open it with the JSON Editor
and add it in there. You can see by default it already added all the fk2ik switches that makes sure you 
are in FK while setting poses  
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_dResetAttrs.jpg)  


## Mirror BlendShape
For mirroring a BlendShape, you first have to mirror the Interpolator. Don't worry if you forget, he'll remind you.
Right click on Interpolator -> Mirror  
Right click on Targets -> The *Mirror* menu there gives you a lot of options to mirror just left to right
for Geo, or just    Ctrls, etc.
For BlendShapes most of the time you choose **Side:Pose Combinations and Flip Meshes** which just creates an
opposite target (if it's not there yet) and gives it the flipped pose. 
You'll have to set the mirror table for that first by right click on the mesh in the Meshes Table. And also
here don't worry if you forget, he'll remind you. 


## Split BlendShape Target 
Flipping does not work well in cases where you want to sculpt a little bit into the middle (central line of the character), 
such as on upperLegUp shapes. It'd work great for just one side, but when you have left and right, it
won't blend well together. While you could create one for left and one for right and then do a combination
target for both together, in most cases it's nicer to do the *Split Target* option

Just sculpt everything into the left target (or the right one, wouldn't matter), and then click the 
left **Side:Pose Combinations and Split Current Combined Shape into Left/Right**


## Mirror Ctrls
For the ctrls you just choose **Side:Pose Combinations and Ctrls**. You can do either the selected
ctrls, or if you don't have any ctrls selected, he'll do all 


## Export
Just click the FillAndExport button. This one fills the ddInterpolators and ddPoseData attributes, and 
creates the file *poseEditorExports.ma* in the mayaImport folder. 
![Alt text](images/PoseEditor_FillAndExport.jpg)  


## Model Change
Whenever the model changes, open the *poseEditorExports.ma* file from the *Export -> MayaImp* tool,
and import the new model. Then select the new model + the corresponding Blendshape Mesh you have in scene,
and click the button *Model Warp Selected Meshes*

Commit message:

more stuff on face and gameengine

kangaroo/docs/body.md, after:

# Body

## Muscle Joints
Muscle joints are simple lightweight joints that can be great for preserving volume,
or some piston type parts
<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7A5NZNeP8vg"
title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Blend Joints
Those are simple joints that rotate a percentage of the main joints. And they have a lot of
attributes to make them translate or scale based on their parents' rotation

To add one, just specify the joint in the list.
![Alt text](images/body_blendJointsAdd.gif)

Then after running that function you'll get that joint. And you can adjust its values:
![Alt text](images/body_blendJoint.gif)

Mirroring and Saving those values can be done with the DEFAULTATTRS options.  
![Alt text](images/body_blendJointsFill.jpg)
Btw - the DEFAULTATTRS thing is a common workflow throughout all the kangaroo tools. Especially when
we come to the face


# Pose Editor
Pose Editor is unavoidable especially when we do Cartoony Characters.  
It consists of Interpolators, BlendShape Poses and Ctrl Poses  


## Interpolators
Interpolators are little setups that measure (most of the time) the joints to see if and how strong
we are in a pose.   
There's a few different types: signedAngle, cones, mayaPose, upleg, custom.  
To add interpolators, just click the *Add* Button. It tells you what you need to select. And the 
selection order doesn't matter here. 

### signedAngle
SignedAngle is the simplest one, and great for simple rotations where you can assume that animators
usually just rotate it in one angle.
When it tells you to select Attribute of Ctrl, you just need to select it in the Channel Box like this:  
![Alt text](images/poseEditior_attribute.jpg)  
Once you created it, special attention is required on the Angle Axis and Up Axis. It might be a bit  
confusing, because those are the ones on the joints, not the ctrl! 
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_signedAngle.jpg)


### mayaPose
This is using the maya native interpolator. It interpolates between all the interpolator's poses at 
once, and normalizes them in some way that whenever you are in one pose, all the other poses are 0.  
That's a great thing and very handy for when you are doing upper arm corrective poses.
But it comes with quite a few disadvantages:  
- you always need to have at least 4 poses (manageable, just add a few extra poses you don't use)  
- you can't adjust the timing   
- inbetween the poses, the timing can get a bit unnatural (For correctives it might be fine, but 
could be an issue for ctrls).  
If you are getting frustrated with one of the disadvantages, try cones
 
  
### Cones
Cones just measure how close the joint's angle is to the cone's angle.
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_cone.gif)
You have more options to adjust the timing. But they can get tricky to setup at first.  
Common issues you have to tackle is that while it looks great when going into the pose, 
if the ctrl moves further the pose fades out again which is unwanted behavior in 90 % of the cases.  
And you have to make sure that there's not a small percentage of the pose turned on when 
the character is in default.  
But the good news is, those are easy to tackle if you are familiar with the **Range**
![Alt text](images/cone_attributes.jpg)  
The first thing you notice on the Range is that it starts from the higher value and goes to 
the smaller value, like 60-10 in the example above.
The first value has to be the same or smaller than the *rotation distance* - In the picture above
the rotation is (0,0,-80) so the rotation distance would be 80.
Notice I said *rotation distance* and not just rotation?
That means even though the angle of the rotation has a negative value, the rotation distance is still positive.  
Also, the range start cannot be bigger than 89. Otherwise it wouldn't be a cone anymore.    
Now we can also use the range to work around our issue with the pose fading out as the ctrl 
moves further than the pose:  
Overshoot the rotation by maybe 30 degrees (0,0,-80) becomes (0,0,-110), and then set the end 
range to 30, so the range becomes (89-30). When you double click on the pose telling him to jump into 
that pose, he'll jump to (0,0,-80), and not (0,0,-110), because 110-30 = 80


TIP: if unsure which one to use, you can start with one and later convert to the other one with right click on the interpolator.


### Upleg
This is a very specialized one just for upper leg rotating upwards like in a sitting pose. 
While you could also do that with Cones or MayaPose, this one is a more specialized one 
that turns on as the legs rotate upwards,
and stays stable when it rotates further. It also fades out as the legs rotate outwards, and you
can control if and how much it should fade out when the leg rotates inwards.


### Custom 
The custom interpolator is good for 2 things - either driving by a control attribute,
or you can use it to create your own interpolator type such as an *Interpolate By Distance Node*
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_customInterpolator.jpg)  
You can see *CtrlAttrX*, *CtrlAttrY* and *CtrlAttrZ*, but you don't need to use all of them
you can just use *CtrlAttrX* and keep the others empty.  
*DriverAttr* the attribute that actually drives the interpolator. Basically the tool checks what value
the DriverAttr has when the CtrlAttrs reach the pose etc..
And if you don't want to use DriverAttr, just give it the same as what you have for CtrlAttrX. 
So *armUpper_l_ctrl.rx* in this case

## Targets
As Targets we can do either BlendShape Poses (*Correctives*), or Ctrl Poses.
Both of them start in the same way, that you just drag&drop a pose from the *Interpolator Table*
into the *Targets Table*
If you drag more than one pose, then the Target is a combination of the poses, and you get that extra
button that lets you specify the blend mode - either *Multiply* or *Smallest*.
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_draggingTargets.gif)  
Ok, but until here it was still boring, it's not doing anything yet.
But now we can choose to do either a blendShape, or Ctrl pose

### BlendShape Targets
First specify the meshes you want to use for blendShapes by adding them into the *Meshes Table*  
And then select them again and click the EDIT button. This tells the tool that whatever you 
sculpt on the mesh will go into that Target.   
Don't forget to deactivate the EDIT button when you are done!
![Alt text](images/PoseEditor_EditButton2.gif)  
The tool I used in this gif is **Mesh Tools -> Sculpting Tools -> Grap Tool**. But when you have the EDIT button 
activated, you can also select vertices and move them. Or use some of the *Geometry Tools* like *Smooth Vertices* 


### Ctrl Targets
When you create Targets on Ctrls, it just creates a Ctrl Locator for each Pose that you can move around
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_addCtrl.gif)  
Whenever you click the *Add/Activate* button it just creates a locator if it doesn't exist yet. If 
it already exists and is also activated, it'll just select it. So that's a multi functional button 
that you'll be clicking a lot.  
In the ctrl hierarchy you can see all the locators, for each target one. And those that are activated are shown
while the others get hidden automatically. This way you could even adjust poses without the UI.
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_locators.jpg)  
But most of the time you'll be faster to just select the locator using the *Add/Activate* button

## dResetAttrs
This is a very important attribute. When you have a for example deltaMush or a blendShape target that shrinks the 
skin to avoid collisions, it would constantly get into the way of sculpting. It would also corrupt stuff when you export
or apply the blendShapes.  
For that we can add the envelope attribute into the dResetAttr dictionary. Just open it with the JSON Editor
and add it in there. You can see by default it already added all the fk2ik switches that makes sure you 
are in FK while setting poses  
![Alt text](images/poseEditor_dResetAttrs.jpg)  


## Mirror BlendShape
For mirroring a BlendShape, you first have to mirror the Interpolator. Don't worry if you forget, he'll remind you.
Right click on Interpolator -> Mirror  
Right click on Targets -> The *Mirror* menu there gives you a lot of options to mirror just left to right
for Geo, or just    Ctrls, etc.
For BlendShapes most of the time you choose **Side:Pose Combinations and Flip Meshes** which just creates an
opposite target (if it's not there yet) and gives it the flipped pose. 
You'll have to set the mirror table for that first by right click on the mesh in the Meshes Table. And also
here don't worry if you forget, he'll remind you. 


## Split BlendShape Target 
Flipping does not work well in cases where you want to sculpt a little bit into the middle (central line of the character), 
such as on upperLegUp shapes. It'd work great for just one side, but when you have left and right, it
won't blend well together. While you could create one for left and one for right and then do a combination
target for both together, in most cases it's nicer to do the *Split Target* option

Just sculpt everything into the left target (or the right one, wouldn't matter), and then click the 
left **Side:Pose Combinations and Split Current Combined Shape into Left/Right**


## Mirror Ctrls
For the ctrls you just choose **Side:Pose Combinations and Ctrls**. You can do either the selected
ctrls, or if you don't have any ctrls selected, he'll do all 


## Export
Just click the FillAndExport button. This one fills the ddInterpolators and ddPoseData attributes, and 
creates the file *poseEditorExports.ma* in the mayaImport folder. 
![Alt text](images/PoseEditor_FillAndExport.jpg)  


# Model Change
Whenever the model changes, open the *poseEditorExports.ma* file from the *Export -> MayaImp* tool,
and import the new model. Then select the new model + the corresponding Blendshape Mesh you have in scene,
and click the button *Model Warp Selected Meshes*


# Motion Capture
Maya has a great tool for Motion Capture retargeting, which is called *humanIK*. Kangaroo is simplifying this for you.
If just turn on the function *humanIkSkeleton()*, it'll create this skeleton:  
![Alt text](images/body_motionCaptureSkeleton.jpg)  
There's nothing for you to do at this point. Just know that it'll use this later under the hood when Animators apply 
Motion Capture using the Picker.  
For more information check: **Animator Tools**
