kangaroo/docs/builder.md, before:

# Builder

The **Builder** is the first most important tool that you need to get familiar with for creating characters.

The builder basically just manages a ton of Python functions from different files, and lets
you run them. Either just selected functions or all at once for the final creation using the **Build All** button

Go to that character you created from the previous section and click *Build All*  
Now sit back and enjoy watching him build the character for you :-)
![Alt text](images/builder_buildAll.gif)

Now take a moment to get familiar with the UI:
![Alt text](images/builder_filesAndFunctions.jpg)

At the top you have Python Files. You can add files, remove files or you can even uncheck them and then all their functions will disappear.
Below are the actual functions. Even further below you can set function arguments for each function that you have selected.
And on the right side (you'll have to drag the splitter a bit) you can see buttons and a description for 
whatever function you have selected.


Looking at the function arguments, you probably just got a headache looking at some of the more complicated looking ones,
like sPoseKeys or ddPoses in the picture above. But don't worry, a lot of them are being generated automatically using the
build buttons.  
And if not, the JSON Editor can help you. Just right click on the argument -> **Show in JSON Editor**. And you get this cool looking UI:
![Alt text](images/builder_jsoneditor.jpg)


You can also create your own python functions and specify arguments and build buttons. But more to that
in the Python section.
For now let's check out some of the more important functions that we automatically.  


## *importModel()* 

The *importModel()* function imports the model. Currently it's just that boring grey guy. 
If you already have a model, go to export -> MODEL, and with the Explorer New Model button
you get a folder that let's you copy a character in it
![Alt text](images/addModel.gif)
If you work in a company that has their own studio pipeline, you might want to grab
the model automatically from the studio pipeline. To see how to do that, go to the python section.
Bascially you'd create a script that from the character name and some version setups looks for the corresponding character model file
in your studio pipeline.


## *importBlueprints()*, *buildPuppet()*
importBlueprints and buildPuppet are the functions is grabbing the work you do in the puppet tool.
Blueprints is basically just a simple ma file with guide joints, and buildPuppet is generating all the 
controls and rigging logic like Iks, Fks, Auto Clavicle, ...
We'll get to those more in detail in **Puppet**. But for now let's continue checking out the 
other important functions.

## *create_GAMESKELETON()*
This creates a duplicated hierarchy that is clean enough to run in Game Engines such as UE or Unity.
You can even set the arguments to convert the joints to the typical UE joint namings/orientations,
which can be handy in many situations.  
When you run that function, you'll see a GAMESKELETON group that you can export as an FBX. 
You can even use the Function button *export FBX* to do that for you   

## *loadCtrlShapes()*
This loads the ctrl shapes that you export in **Ctrls** -> **Export** -> **Export All Ctrls** 


## *loadDeformers()*
This loads the deformers (mainly skinCluster weights)   
You can export the deformers in **Export** -> **Deformers**  
Keep in mind this only saves **weights**, **attribute values** and **deformer orders**  
Some riggers in the past expected it to also load the deformer structures such as blendShape targets, or wrap deformer setups.
But for the blendShapes there are way cooler tools than that (see later in **Pose Editor** and **Shape Editor**).   
And if you want to do stuff like Wrap Deformers or Morph, it's much cleaner to do that in a 
python function before the loadDeformers(), and let the loadDeformers() just set the weights.  
Easy deformers like *DeltaMush* that mainly just need weights and attribute values could can be handled 
just in the loadDeformers() function

## *importMayaFiles()*
If you go to **Export** -> **MayaImp**, you can export some scene elements. Those get imported on the **mayaImport()** function

## *importTargets()*
Very similar to importMayaFiles(). But Targets are just simple Polygon Meshes. Those are saved with a Numpy file format
that keeps the files smaller. Obvously the file might be even smaller if you save it as a dummy blendShape and add a builder function that extracts it (and some kangaroo tools do exactly that),
but there are many situations where you have some simple meshes and you don't want to go through that hassle.
If you go to **Export** -> **Targets**, you can export the selected meshes.  
By default it creates a file for each mesh and the mesh name is defined in the file name. 
This makes it very easy to manage later


## Other Functions
Now I've just shown you the important basic functions. But there's a looooot more, like all the green ones.
And later for the Face we'll add lots of orange functions


## Custom Functions
You can create your own functions in Python and declare your own arguments and builder buttons. But that's another topic, shown in **Python**

Commit message:

more stuff on pose editor

kangaroo/docs/builder.md, after:


The **Builder** is the first most important tool that you need to get familiar with for creating characters.

The builder basically just manages a ton of Python functions from different files, and lets
you run them. Either just selected functions or all at once for the final creation using the **Build All** button

Go to that character you created from the previous section and click *Build All*  
Now sit back and enjoy watching him build the character for you :-)
![Alt text](images/builder_buildAll.gif)

Now take a moment to get familiar with the UI:
![Alt text](images/builder_filesAndFunctions.jpg)

At the top you have Python Files. You can add files, remove files or you can even uncheck them and then all their functions will disappear.
Below are the actual functions. Even further below you can set function arguments for each function that you have selected.
And on the right side (you'll have to drag the splitter a bit) you can see buttons and a description for 
whatever function you have selected.


Looking at the function arguments, you probably just got a headache looking at some of the more complicated looking ones,
like sPoseKeys or ddPoses in the picture above. But don't worry, a lot of them are being generated automatically using the
build buttons.  
And if not, the JSON Editor can help you. Just right click on the argument -> **Show in JSON Editor**. And you get this cool looking UI:
![Alt text](images/builder_jsoneditor.jpg)


You can also create your own python functions and specify arguments and build buttons. But more to that
in the Python section.
For now let's check out some of the more important functions that we automatically.  


# The Functions

## *importModel()* 

The *importModel()* function imports the model. Currently it's just that boring grey guy. 
If you already have a model, go to export -> MODEL, and with the Explorer New Model button
you get a folder that let's you copy a character in it
![Alt text](images/addModel.gif)
If you work in a company that has their own studio pipeline, you might want to grab
the model automatically from the studio pipeline. To see how to do that, go to the python section.
Bascially you'd create a script that from the character name and some version setups looks for the corresponding character model file
in your studio pipeline.


## *importBlueprints()*, *buildPuppet()*
importBlueprints and buildPuppet are the functions is grabbing the work you do in the puppet tool.
Blueprints is basically just a simple ma file with guide joints, and buildPuppet is generating all the 
controls and rigging logic like Iks, Fks, Auto Clavicle, ...
We'll get to those more in detail in **Puppet**. But for now let's continue checking out the 
other important functions.

## *create_GAMESKELETON()*
This creates a duplicated hierarchy that is clean enough to run in Game Engines such as UE or Unity.
You can even set the arguments to convert the joints to the typical UE joint namings/orientations,
which can be handy in many situations.  
When you run that function, you'll see a GAMESKELETON group that you can export as an FBX. 
You can even use the Function button *export FBX* to do that for you   

## *loadCtrlShapes()*
This loads the ctrl shapes that you export in **Ctrls** -> **Export** -> **Export All Ctrls** 


## *loadDeformers()*
This loads the deformers (mainly skinCluster weights)   
You can export the deformers in **Export** -> **Deformers**  
Keep in mind this only saves **weights**, **attribute values** and **deformer orders**  
Some riggers in the past expected it to also load the deformer structures such as blendShape targets, or wrap deformer setups.
But for the blendShapes there are way cooler tools than that (see later in **Pose Editor** and **Shape Editor**).   
And if you want to do stuff like Wrap Deformers or Morph, it's much cleaner to do that in a 
python function before the loadDeformers(), and let the loadDeformers() just set the weights.  
Easy deformers like *DeltaMush* that mainly just need weights and attribute values could can be handled 
just in the loadDeformers() function

## *importMayaFiles()*
If you go to **Export** -> **MayaImp**, you can export some scene elements. Those get imported on the **mayaImport()** function

## *importTargets()*
Very similar to importMayaFiles(). But Targets are just simple Polygon Meshes. Those are saved with a Numpy file format
that keeps the files smaller. Obvously the file might be even smaller if you save it as a dummy blendShape and add a builder function that extracts it (and some kangaroo tools do exactly that),
but there are many situations where you have some simple meshes and you don't want to go through that hassle.
If you go to **Export** -> **Targets**, you can export the selected meshes.  
By default it creates a file for each mesh and the mesh name is defined in the file name. 
This makes it very easy to manage later


## Other Functions
Now I've just shown you the important basic functions. But there's a looooot more, like all the green ones.
And later for the Face we'll add lots of orange functions


## Custom Functions
You can create your own functions in Python and declare your own arguments and builder buttons. But that's another topic, shown in **Python**  


# Tricks

## Selection Templates
Selection Templates is the ST button on the right.  
By default it lets you select all the functions until LoadDeformers or all the functions until before Clean.  
And with right mouse click you can define your own selection templates.  
The clean() functions are basically cleaning the scene.
You'll learn more about it later, but for some things like muscle joints or debugging skinCluster it's
great to just build until before clean.

## Undo + Run Selected
If you building the whole character and it just breaks at once function, you can just fix for example the python code or
attributes, and run *Undo+Run Selected*, without having to run everything from the beginning. Basically the builder
remembers the undo "position" before each function and then later can do lots of undos in a row until he'll get to
wherever it was before the function.  
Unfortunately that doesn't work whenever the function does somethign that's not undo supported such as importing something.
